---
title: Goals for the new year
categories: tech future personal
---

Since it's a new year and everybody seems to be posting their new year's
resolutions, I'll do the same.

I believe in [SMART goals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMART_criteria) so I'll
set my personal goals for this year accordingly.

Ordered from most important to least important.

 * Spend at least one full weekend per month with my family until 2018-12-31.
Tracked by calendar.

 * Ensure my wife gets at least one 4-day-weekend without our kid and me to
recharge until 2018-06-30. Tracked by calendar. Aim for at least one more.

 * Maximum weight at 2018-03-31 23:59 is 70kg. Minimum weight is 65kg. Tracked by
fitness tracking app.

 * Minimum time spent per week on sports is 3 x 45 minutes for the whole year,
tracked by a fitness tracking app. This one will start with a delay of one week
due to us being on holidays currently.

 * Start OSCP on 2018-03-15, finish OSCP at the latest on 2018-05-31.

 * I want to change positions within my current company, so the goal is to
negotiate a) the new position (DFIR consultant instead of IT Security
Consultant) and b) a new salary to go along with this. The new position should
be filled by 2018-02-28, so this is the time frame. The new minimum salary must
be 115% of my current salary. Due to privacy concerns I will not make a precise
statement in EUR at this place. Tracked by contract.

 * Complete at least the necessary leadership training for my current position at
THW. Tracked by THWin (internal management system)

 * Halve my debts by 2018-12-31 (except for my student loans, those have a fixed
time frame I can only override by earning an obscene amount of money. Not likely
to happen very soon.) Same privacy concerns as above. Let's just say this is an
ambitious goal. Tracked by a spreadsheet on my laptop.

 * Write at least one blog post about an IT Security / IT Incident Response topic
per month until 2018-12-31. Tracked on the blog.

 * Participate in every degree work of my lodge (once a month) until 2018-12-31.
Tracked by calendar.

 * Participate in at least 75% of all saturday obligations for THW until
2018-12-31. Tracked by calendar.

 * Publish at least one "big" contribution to at least one relevant newspaper /
magazine / blog until 2018-05-31.

 * Participate in at least two CTF competitions until 2018-12-31. At least one
with the clear intent to win. Tracked by calendar.

 * Complete at least 5 wargames until 2018-12-31. Tracked by calendar.

 * Get a perfect 365-day-streak on Duolingo for French, Dutch and Spanish.
Tracked by Duolingo.

This should fill my calendar rather well and when I look back on 2018-12-31 and
see what I'll have accomplished, I'll have one more reason to be proud of
myself. What are your goals for the year? What are your tricks to ensure that
you keep them?
