---
title: Goals -- A new hope
categories: tech future personal
---

After writing about my goals [exactly one year
ago](https://dmaendlen.github.io/tech/future/personal/2018/01/01/goals.html) and
[updating
those](https://dmaendlen.github.io/tech/future/personal/2018/01/29/goals-update.html)
nearly a month later, I'll see what happened to my goals and set new ones for a
hopefully better year.

## Recap

 * Spend at least one full weekend per month with my family until 2018-12-31.
Tracked by calendar.

This was easy this year. I didn't spend nearly as many weekends away from home
as I'd have liked. Not even after my wife kicked cancer's ass.

 * Ensure my wife gets at least one 4-day-weekend without our kid and me to
recharge until 2018-06-30. Tracked by calendar. Aim for at least one more.

Same here, she spent a lot of time in the hospital but she also got to go on
vacation for some time without us to heal better. I consider that goal fulfilled
as well.

 * Maximum weight at 2018-03-31 23:59 is 70kg. Minimum weight is 65kg. Tracked by
fitness tracking app.

Haha. No. This didn't work. At all. Stress, a lot to do and no mental capacity
left me with no time and no discipline so, no. I'm currently weighing in around
85kg.

 * Minimum time spent per week on sports is 3 x 45 minutes for the whole year,
tracked by a fitness tracking app. This one will start with a delay of one week
due to us being on holidays currently.

See above.

 * Start OSCP on 2018-03-15, finish OSCP at the latest on 2018-05-31.

This was blocked by our HR first and the circumstances later. I did get to do
the lab for some time but not nearly enough and so I'll have to go to HR again
this year with my hat in hand and ask for a new lab attempt and time off.

 * I want to change positions within my current company, so the goal is to
negotiate a) the new position (DFIR consultant instead of IT Security
Consultant) and b) a new salary to go along with this. The new position should
be filled by 2018-02-28, so this is the time frame. The new minimum salary must
be 115% of my current salary. Due to privacy concerns I will not make a precise
statement in EUR at this place. Tracked by contract.

This worked. I'm now a DFIR consultant and earn even more than the 115% that I
aimed for. Not a lot more but more.

 * Complete at least the necessary leadership training for my current position at
THW. Tracked by THWin (internal management system)

This had to be put on hold. I'll attempt it again this year.

 * Halve my debts by 2018-12-31 (except for my student loans, those have a fixed
time frame I can only override by earning an obscene amount of money. Not likely
to happen very soon.) Same privacy concerns as above. Let's just say this is an
ambitious goal. Tracked by a spreadsheet on my laptop.

Using [YNAB](https://ynab.com) to budget and track my finances, I got on the
right track and then we moved. Now I'm starting again.

 * Write at least one blog post about an IT Security / IT Incident Response topic
per month until 2018-12-31. Tracked on the blog.

Yeah, no. I'd have liked that but it just wasn't possible. I'll also try this again.

 * Participate in every degree work of my lodge (once a month) until 2018-12-31.
Tracked by calendar.

I checked out of my lodge due to the circumstances early in 2018 and didn't come
back until September. I came for every degree since then so I consider this one
fulfilled as much as possible within the given circumstances.

 * Participate in at least 75% of all saturday obligations for THW until
2018-12-31. Tracked by calendar.

This was also cancelled.

 * Publish at least one "big" contribution to at least one relevant newspaper /
magazine / blog until 2018-05-31.

This wasn't possible. Let's see what happens this year, I'll not have it as an
explicit goal anymore for 2019.

 * Participate in at least two CTF competitions until 2018-12-31. At least one
with the clear intent to win. Tracked by calendar.

I did two, won one and brought home a beautiful coin. I even have [Dave Cowen's
Twitter post](https://twitter.com/HECFBlog/status/1043484205051723776). In SANS
net wars I competed in a team challenge and our team made second place. So this
worked quite well.

 * Complete at least 5 wargames until 2018-12-31. Tracked by calendar.

Didn't happen as well.

 * Get a perfect 365-day-streak on Duolingo for French, Dutch and Spanish.
Tracked by Duolingo.

And the last one fell through as well. So we have four completed goals, four
partially completed ones and seven that had to be slashed. I'm not that unhappy
with that outcome, to be honest. I think under better circumstances, I'd have
achieved much more. But you know what they say, no battle plan survives the
first contact with the enemy.

## New goals

Let's list the SMART goals again and see, how much progress I can make this year.

 * Spend at least one full weekend per month with my family until 2019-12-31.
Tracked by calendar.

 * Maximum weight at 2019-05-22 23:59 is 70kg. Minimum weight is 65kg. Tracked by
fitness tracking app.

 * Minimum time spent per week on sports is 3 x 45 minutes for the whole year,
tracked by a fitness tracking app. This one will start with a delay of one week
due to us being on holidays currently.

 * Have a working light fixture on my balcony by 2019-01-31. Tracked by blog post.

 * Get the GCFE certificate by 2019-01-31. Tracked by certificate.

 * Make all RPis run from USB drives by 2019-02-28. Tracked by blog post.

 * Have a working backup system by 2019-03-31. Tracked by blog post.

 * Include a PiHole DNS in my home network by 2019-04-30. Tracked by blog post.

 * Set my home network up for IPv6 use by 2019-05-31. Tracked by blog post.

 * Start second OSCP lab on 2019-01-31, finish OSCP at the latest on 2019-05-31. Tracked by certificate.

 * Build a logging system into my home network by 2019-06-30. Tracked by blog post.

 * Build a logging proxy server into my home network by 2019-07-31. Tracked by
blog post.

 * Build a SIEM into my home network by 2019-08-31. Tracked by blog post.

 * Build monitoring for my washing machine by 2019-09-30. Tracked by blog post.

 * Extend my Freifunk Stuttgart Wireless range to the park benches in front of
our house by 2019-10-31. Tracked by blog post.

 * Have a fine particle sensor in my network by 2019-11-30. Tracked by blog post.

 * Build a man in the middle device by 2019-12-31. Tracked by blog post.

 * Complete at least the necessary leadership training for my current position at
THW. Tracked by THWin (internal management system)

 * Halve my debts by 2019-12-31 (except for my student loans, those have a fixed
time frame I can only override by earning an obscene amount of money. Not likely
to happen very soon.) Tracked by YNAB.

 * Participate in every degree work of my lodge (once a month) until 2019-12-31.
Tracked by calendar.

 * Participate in at least 75% of all saturday obligations for THW until
2019-12-31. Tracked by calendar.

 * Participate in at least two CTF competitions until 2019-12-31. At least one
with the clear intent to win. Tracked by calendar.

Especially the monthly project with a blog post is an ambitious thing to do but
I'll try to get it into my calendar right now to make sure it works out.
