---
title: Moving the goal posts
categories: tech future personal
---

Posting about your goals on the internet? Bold move, Cotton, let's see if it
pays off.

## Recap
 * Spend at least one full weekend per month with my family until 2019-12-31.
Tracked by calendar.

This worked out very well.

 * Maximum weight at 2019-05-22 23:59 is 70kg. Minimum weight is 65kg. Tracked by
fitness tracking app.

Hahahahaha. No. Not at all. Unfortunately. Currently working on a new attempt.

 * Minimum time spent per week on sports is 3 x 45 minutes for the whole year,
tracked by a fitness tracking app. This one will start with a delay of one week
due to us being on holidays currently.

Again. Not at all. I just didn't muster the energy.

 * Have a working light fixture on my balcony by 2019-01-31. Tracked by blog post.

I have this light but I didn't blog about it.

 * Get the GCFE certificate by 2019-01-31. Tracked by certificate.

Yes, this worked as well.

 * Make all RPis run from USB drives by 2019-02-28. Tracked by blog post.

No. Instead I moved everything to a virtualized server infrastructure and did
not blog about it.

 * Have a working backup system by 2019-03-31. Tracked by blog post.

Well, generally yes. Currently not working due to hard drive failure.
Replacements are shipped now.

 * Include a PiHole DNS in my home network by 2019-04-30. Tracked by blog post.

Yes, this worked out.

 * Set my home network up for IPv6 use by 2019-05-31. Tracked by blog post.

No.

 * Start second OSCP lab on 2019-01-31, finish OSCP at the latest on 2019-05-31. Tracked by certificate.

No, this goal got cancelled because I got fed up with Offensive Security's concepts.

 * Build a logging system into my home network by 2019-06-30. Tracked by blog post.

Log collection is not yet implemented.

 * Build a logging proxy server into my home network by 2019-07-31. Tracked by
blog post.

This worked (minus the blog post.)

 * Build a SIEM into my home network by 2019-08-31. Tracked by blog post.

Not yet implemented.

 * Build monitoring for my washing machine by 2019-09-30. Tracked by blog post.

Not yet implemented.

 * Extend my Freifunk Stuttgart Wireless range to the park benches in front of
our house by 2019-10-31. Tracked by blog post.

Not yet implemented.

 * Have a fine particle sensor in my network by 2019-11-30. Tracked by blog post.

Not yet implemented.

 * Build a man in the middle device by 2019-12-31. Tracked by blog post.

Not yet implemented.

 * Complete at least the necessary leadership training for my current position at
THW. Tracked by THWin (internal management system)

THW fucked up and changed the course structure without providing enough training
spaces. This will probably be delayed for another year or two.

 * Halve my debts by 2019-12-31 (except for my student loans, those have a fixed
time frame I can only override by earning an obscene amount of money. Not likely
to happen very soon.) Tracked by YNAB.

I overachieved on this one. There is exactly one payment left for 2020
regardings those debts. Obviously the student loans still stand.

 * Participate in every degree work of my lodge (once a month) until 2019-12-31.
Tracked by calendar.

This worked well.

 * Participate in at least 75% of all saturday obligations for THW until
2019-12-31. Tracked by calendar.

This worked well.

 * Participate in at least two CTF competitions until 2019-12-31. At least one
with the clear intent to win. Tracked by calendar.

This did not work at all.

So, overall I managed to achieve the most important of my goals: spend time with
my family. I also overachieved on the financial side of things and I did some
things I count as beneficial while I did almost none of the things I planned to
do.

Clearly this is a systematic issue. Either I have to work more on my goals or I
have to choose more realistic goals (or at least a lot less of them.)

## New goals

Let's break this down a little.

### Quality of life goals
 * Spend at least one full weekend per month with my family until 2020-12-31.
Tracked by calendar.

 * Maximum weight at 2020-12-31 23:59 is 70kg. Minimum weight is 65kg. Tracked by
fitness tracking app.

 * Minimum time spent per week on sports is 3 x 45 minutes for the whole year,
tracked by a fitness tracking app. This one will start with a delay of one week
due to us being on holidays currently.

### Tech projects
 * Blog about *all* the stuff I didn't document publicly over the last year until
2020-01-31.

 * Set my home network up for IPv6 use by 2020-02-28. Tracked by blog post.

 * Build a logging system into my home network by 2020-04-30. Tracked by blog post.

 * Build a SIEM into my home network by 2020-06-30. Tracked by blog post.

 * Build monitoring for my washing machine by 2020-08-31. Tracked by blog post.

 * Extend my Freifunk Stuttgart Wireless range to the park benches in front of
our house by 2020-10-31. Tracked by blog post.

 * Have a fine particle sensor in my network by 2020-12-31. Tracked by blog post.

### Volunteer obligations
 * Participate in every degree work of my lodge (once a month) until 2020-12-31.
Tracked by calendar.

 * Participate in at least 75% of all saturday obligations for THW until
2020-12-31. Tracked by calendar.

### Financial goals
 * Create half of a decent emergency fund by 2020-12-31. Financially speaking, a
decent emergency fund is roughly equivalent to six months of spending without
any form of income. Tracked by YNAB.

 * Add at least an additional 100€ per month for the whole year to my depot for
long-term investment. Tracked by YNAB.

 * Keep budgeting all income and expenses for the whole year. Tracked by YNAB.
